observability blog post (#884)
kyma-project/website: content/blog-posts/2022-09-25-observabaility-strategy/index.md

---
title: "From Observability to Telemetry – a strategy shift in Kyma"
author:
  name: Andreas Thaler, PO @Kyma"
tags:
  - kyma
  - observability

redirectFrom:
  - "/blog/observability-strategy"
---

> I’m part of the Kyma team working on the Observability feature, and I’ve seen the Kyma project evolving over time into a runtime that provides Kubernetes building blocks with enterprise-grade quality. In this blog post, I want to show you how this evolution is going to apply to Kyma’s observability features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I’m part of the Kyma team working on the Observability feature, and I’ve seen the Kyma project evolve over time from an extensibility framework with "batteries included" into a runtime that provides Kubernetes building blocks with enterprise-grade quality. In this blog post, I want to show you how this evolution is going to apply to Kyma’s observability features.
```

Considering our readership in the Kyma blog potentially are experienced Kymians, it feels right to add "what it used to be" into this sentence.

After you defined different signal pipelines (at runtime!) by filtering the signals and configuring outputs, the collectors immediately start shipping the signals through the pipelines to the backends. To guarantee enterprise-grade qualities, we will limit the configuration options for the collectors using the Kubernetes API. However, you can run your own collector setup for advanced customization options at any time.

The dynamic configuration and management of each collector will be handled by a new **telemetry operator**, which is configured using Kubernetes API.

The collectors and the new operator will be bundled in a new Kyma core component called **“Telemetry”**.

In the future, the classic Kyma observability backends and user interfaces will be just one possible solution. If you want to keep using them, you can install them with blueprints we’ll provide.

For more details, have a look at the [strategy document](https://github.com/kyma-project/community/blob/main/concepts/observability-strategy/strategy.md).

> ![Telemetry Architecture](./assets/architecture.png)

Reviewer: in the preview, the images look broken. Not sure if that'll be okay after publication.

<img width="557" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/76950046/191546053-3b04f087-8fb4-4e93-9ad8-de660c36e37c.png">
